2) I've graduated from university where I get (edit: completed) a degree in business studies.
3) I have high (edit: a) level of spoken English
4) I have some relevant experience.
5) I (edit: My tasks have included) had been dealing with client by phone.
6) I would welcome to work in high-profile company.
7) I attach f full CV.
8) If you require some more information we'll provide it to you.
9) I look forward to hear from you soon.

WRITING
Dear Ms. Richards
I am writing to apply for the post of festival staff at Global Stage UK.

I have graduated from University of London, where I completed a degree in journalism. 
My mother tongue is Frech and I have a high level of spoken English because I have been living in England for 10 years.
On second term of my bachelor degree I lived for six months in German as part of my exchange programm between London and Hamburg universities.
Also I can add that I was member of uniersity swimming team.

As you will see from my CV, I have some relevand experience as I took part as a volunteer in three music festivals before.
I have worked in various roles there, including security team and administration team. In the last one we organized the fulfillment of the needs of both performers and spectators.
We did it well so we was thanked by event sponsors.

I can guess that my experience would be useful for you to arrange this large-scale event.
I love beeing in such atmosphere but even more I like to participate in it.
It's also wery useful for my profession because I have to communicate with people from all over the world.

I attach a full CV and if you require any futher information I would be happy to provide it.

I look forward to hearing from you.
Yours sincerely,
Jean-Paul Sartre.

№ 1B
2) consequently
3) so as not to
4) in case
5) so that
6) Despite
7) but
8) As a result
9) so that
10) However
11) Although
12) as
13) so as to
14) so that
15) bacause of

activation
I can saty that the most challenging time for me was when I was searching for the first job.
I had been studying computer science for 2 years and tking part in differend programming competitions before I was able to fill my CV.
It took week to compose it right because I didn't know how.
Then I was invited for two internships and I had to work for both of them because it wasn't possible to choose one.
After two weeks of such work I made my choice - full-time internship with further employment. 
I had to complete it during December. At the same time university and military cathedra sessions stated. 
I slept 4 hours a day max to do everything I had to do. When I finally completed internship and did all study projects I relaxed during New-Year hollidays.
Then I took a month's leave from work and passed exams.