ARTICLE - https://cacm.acm.org/magazines/2021/12/256929-the-hardware-lottery/fulltext

software – программное обеспечение
hardware- аппаратное обеспечение
siloed – разрозненный
heterogeneous – неоднородный
thread – поток
compatible – совместимый
general-purpose – общего назначения
integrated circuit – интегральная схема
emphasis – акцент
myriad – мириады
deviate – отклониться
formidable – значительный, внушительный
cease – прекратить
deficiency – недостаток
endeavor – попытка
to doom – обречь
surreptitiously – тайком
fabricating – изготовление
precision – точность
to lay down – закладывать (основы)
convolutional - свёрточный
backpropagation - обратное распространение
cumbersome - громоздкий

SUMMARY

First computers were very specialized. Software was written exclusively for certain model of computer.
The general-purpose computer era crystallized in 1969, when Gordan Moore wrote his mind in one
magazine – he said that the number of transistors on an integrated circuit could be doubled every two
years. Prediction held and motivated a remarkable decline in the cost of transforming energy into
information over the next 50 years. Even for tasks which demanded higher performance, the benefits of
moving to specialized hardware could be quickly eclipsed by the next generation of general-purpose
hardware with ever-growing computing power.

There is one essential principle: “a deficiency in any one of a number of factors dooms an endeavor to
failure” (Anna Karenina principle). Most computer science breakthroughs follow the Anna Karenina
principle. hardware lottery—avoiding possible points of failure in downstream hardware and software
choices.

Charles Babbage was a computer pioneer who designed a machine that could be programmed, but first
such machines were build much later – in 20th sentury.

The most salient example of the damage caused by not winning the hardware lottery is the delayed
recognition of deep neural networks as a promising direction of research becfuse algorithms 
were invented few decades before this research direction gained popularity. Such researches was 
impossible cause CPUs was uneficient in parallel computation. All chaged in 2000s when people 
start widely using GPUs which are better at parallelizing.

Software also plays a role in deciding which research ideas win and which ones lose. For axample, there are coupde of programming languages which lost their popularity as need for more abstract instrumetns appeared.
